>> Kyle Simpson: But again,
that still only tells something about
data structures that never need to change.
What do we do with data structures
that do need to change?
Well, you can't treat all data
structures as immutable data structure.
As read only data structures, some of
them are going to have to be mutable.
And here's the real
counter intuitive thing.
When you have the need for a mutable
data structure, that is one that is not
read only, what you actually need
is an immutable data structure.
Let me say that again,
because it's really strange.
When you need a mutable data structure,
what you actually need is
an immutable data structure.
So what am I talking about here,
what do I mean by that?
An immutable data structure,
is one that allows
not no mutation, but
rather structured mutation.
Structured controlled intentional
mutation, as opposed to just willy nilly
make an assignment statement and
create a side effects somewhere.
It's the next level from a read only,
you should start by asking,
is this ever going to need to
mutate in any way, shape, or form?
If so, then I don't use a read only,
I need to do something immutable.
But if it never needs to change,
then just stick with the plain,
simple, read-only data structure.
We only step up to this immutable data
structure, if it needs to mutate.
So what exactly is
an immutable data structure?
It is a representation of
the data structures that
we are used to dealing with.
We're used to dealing
with data structures,
like arrays where we can access
things at index positions.
We're used to dealing
with things like objects,
where we can access things
at named property positions.
It's things like that,
it's data structures like that.
But where you don't have access to
the actual underlying data structure,
what you have only is an API to access it.
And the API,
creates a layer of control that prevents
unexpected changes to the data structure.
Specifically what an immutable
data structure says, is,
unless you switch it into
a special mode that allows this.
So by default it's not,
if you switch it into a special mode you
can literally go in and muck with it if
you have like a performance problem
that you need to deal with.
But in a general state, an immutable
data structure says essentially you
cannot change the data structure,
you can only create a new data structure
with the change having been applied.
Similar to what we did, a couple of slides
ago when I made a copy to the thing and
then I added the status field to it.
It's similar to that concept, it says,
listen, I need to add something to it.
And the response from the API is,
okay, but
here's a new data structure
with the change applied.
I'm not gonna let you
modify the previous one.
And the reason I'm not gonna let you
modify the previous one, is that somebody
else in the program might be relying
upon the previous state of that object.
>> Kyle Simpson: They have to opt in to
saying, I want your version of the object.
You don't get to decide, process order,
that you're gonna affect something at
a distance somewhere else in the app.
You could return the new order, the
processed order with the status field, and
allow the caller of your function to
decide what they wanna do with that
information.
But you don't get to mutate it from afar.
That's what I mean by saying that
immutable data structure creates a control
mechanism, it creates a controlled
intentional way for the mutation to occur
and by default, it simply says let's make
a whole new object, a whole new array,
a whole new list, a whole new object,
a whole new map, whatever the data
structure is, make a whole new one of
those with the change having their plight.
Now the question becomes,
how could that possibly be performed,
how could it possibly be performed for
me to make a only copy this array or
only copy of this object every
single time I need to make a change.
Because the kinds of objects and arrays
that we're talking about the need to be
mutated probably need to be mutated a lot.
Not once or twice, not 3 or 10 times but
like thousands of times a second.
So the ante is high for if I'm going
to change this thing over and over and
over and over again so often, and
I'm creating all these new ones and
throwing all the old ones away at worst.
I mean, at best,
I just have a bunch of garbage collection.
But at worst you consider all
the CPU churn of making all
those copies over and over again.
And this is where the real power of
an immutable data structure comes in.
Because the way immutable
data structures are designed,
is designed specifically with
this optimization in mind.
In theory, in functional programming, we
just say, no you don't make a new thing.
You don't make a change to a thing, you
make a new thing with the change applied.
But in practice, that means real cost
like garbage collection and CPU.
And so, it is the job of an immutable
data structure to mitigate
that real practical cost,
so that we get closer back
to the theoretical benefit of what
an immutable data structure is.
So, if you use an immutable data
structure, what it's actually going to do
is not create a whole new copy of the
object when you try to change a property,
but rather make a new object with the new
information in it and internally,
have a pointer back to the previous one.
It's actually a little bit like a get
repo, where every time you've committed
something you're just storing a deaf
compared to what it was before.
And immutable data structure is
essentially conceptually like a get
data structure, where each new object
in the chain that you've created
is just a deaf on the previous object.
Its stores internally that
there's now a new property or
that a properties been changed or
something like that.
And so, you're not paying nearly as
much of the performance penalty CPU and
you're not paying the garbage
collection penalty.
In the general sense,
there's certainly corner cases here and
it's why immutable data structures cannot
allow you to opt-in for time period
you can sort of crack it open, make some
changes and then lock it back together.
Those things have to exist because
sometimes we have performance bottlenecks
that we need to deal with,
but in the general sense,
we want to just use the data
structure in that conceptual way and
allow it to abstract away those
performance optimizations for us.
So, how do we get
immutable data structures?
We do not at the present time
have immutable data structures
natively in JavaScript.
There have been a couple of
rumblings from some people on TC39,
that maybe someday that will happen.
But you need to understand
that when I say,
when somebody says, yeah, somebody on
TC39 has talked about maybe it happening?
That means that we might
get it a decade from now.
That's not, it's gonna happen
in a few weeks, or a few months.
The timelines that we're talking about
here are, well, it's been talked about for
the last five years, and
now there's a first proposal.
And then four years later they vet it,
and now it's finally landing.
So we're not talking about this sort
of stuff landing natively in JavaScript
any time soon.
But it's at least encouraging that some
conversation has started about it.
Some people in that realm have started
to say, maybe this would be useful for
JavaScript to have built it natively.
And there would be a huge benefit
to the language being able to
highly optimize these sorts of
things that we're talking about.